The idea about `HoC` is to **`share`** different functionalities between components!

---

# HoC pt. 1 - special offer!

-   just created the `SpecialOffer.tsx` component

-   nothing special about it ... 👀

---

# HoC pt. 2 - another form of HoC, passing the component in along with other arguments if needed!

Overkill for this app?! Yes. Lol.

-   CONTEXT and REDUCER is different! Duh, why are you making those? The types for what goes into the createContext ( dispatchFn ) was being crossed in my mind with the types of the actions for the reducer!

-   we will wrap both `FoodCard.tsx` and `SpecialOffer.tsx` with it!

1. create a `/hoc` folder

2. create the `AddToCart.tsx` file

-   naming convetion for HoC is to start with `with`, ex. `withErrorHandler`, `withCustomHoC`

3. the `ChildComponent` must be of type `React.ComponentType<OriginalProps>`

-   passing in `{...props}` inside the `<ChildComponent>` so that the component will still contain all the props it has!

    -   `<ChildComponent {...props} />`

Below just shows an example of what the object must consist to become a type of `Greeting`

```
interface HiThere<T> {
	type: T;
}

interface Greeting extends HiThere<"A Greeting"> {
    formal: boolean
}

const beFormal: Greeting = {
    type: "A Greeting",
    formal: true
}
```

-   example to show that `AddToCartHOC` uses:
    -   `<ChildComponent {...props} />`
    -   `React.ComponentType` is ChildComponent
    -   `<OriginalProps>` is `{...props}`

4. **Just learn it for now!**

-   No need to get into the nitty gritty of things since.

5. Passing down the function

-   the `HoC` component will pass down a `function`, the function WILL be a `prop` in the `child component`!

Rough visualization | **`NOT`** code

```
withAddToCart {
    // this is the function from the parent
    onAddToCart: () => void

    FoodCard {
        // the child using the component
        props.onAddToCart: () => void
        since it comes from the parent
    }

}
```

6. Create an `interface` for the `onAddToCart` function and extend it to the `interface Props` in `FoodCard.tsx` and `SpecialOffer.tsx` to use in the child component since it will be used in the props interface

-   Now you can use the function because TS knows how to handle the function now, the interface also tells that the function needs a `type CartItem` object!

7. A gotcha when using `HoC`, the props you will be passed in the child component in the HoC component, ... an unwanted outcome is that the rendering of the component will be expected all the time when you call for the component! ( maybe because it's wrapped with the HoC? )

-   if I pass down the `onAddToCart()` function from `withAddToCart HoC` to a child component, like to `FoodCard.tsx`, every time I want to render the `<FoodCard />`, it will **require** me to pass in the `onAddToCart` _EVEN_ though I get the props from the `HoC ( which is withAddToCart )`

This is unwanted behavior! This is an issue with TS the language! It is being discussed!

-   **MY SOLUTION**: just add `?` to the `withAddToCartProps` interface!

-   **ALTERNATE SOLUTION**:

```
export interface withAddToCartProps {
	// onAddToCart?: (item: CartItem) => void; <-- my solution
	onAddToCart: (item: Omit<CartItem, 'quantity'>) => void
}

function withAddToCart<OriginalProps>( ChildComponent: React.ComponentType<OriginalProps> ) {

    const AddToCartHOC = (props: Omit<OrigialProps, keyof withAddToCartProps>) => {
        ...

        return (
            <ChildComponent {...props as OriginalProps} addToCart={onHandleAddToCart}>
        )


    }

    return AddToCartHOC;
}
```

-   here, the props type will **OMIT** the `onAddToCart` via `keyof withAddToCartProps` ( just grabs the keys )
-   `{...props}` will now have a different type since the Omit function was used, so **`assert`** that it is **`as`** `OriginalProps`

In my solution, I took into account that you probably might not _need_ to pass anything DOWN to the child component, you can just do everything **_`IN`_** the **HoC**, ... why bring it out if you don't need to? I made it into an optional argument, a prop that you may OR may not need!

-   I implemented the solution of **`NOT`** passing it down

    -   after testing what the props will output, it does out output for EACH item, as it should.
    -   a new hack to convert `(props as never) as FoodVariable` was discovered, woohoo
        -   the `never` was suggested from VS code
    -   created `FoodVariable interface` to get the desired structure and traverse to the data we need!
    -   `: withAddToCartProps["onAddToCart"]` only there to show that that was the onAddToCart function
