# Creating CSS Modules

ex. `App.module.css`

`Block` | `Element` | `Modifer` === `BEM`

Looks a lot. But not really. Just look at the CSS parts:

-   `webpack.config.js`
-   `tsconfig.json`
-   `package.json` ( just to see if the deps are added! )

---

# Adding general CSS to be outputted to the /dist folder

<br>

1. create `./styles` folder

2. `npm i -D css-loader`

-   create rule in `webpack.config.js` and add a loader because webpack does NOT know how to handle CSS files

-   `css-loader` only reads and parses!, it does not attach them to the document!

3. To add the parsed CSS to the document, add plugin

-   `npm i -D mini-css-extract-plugin`

This plugin contains a loader that will be used in the CSS rule!

-   `use:` multiple loaders

-   also take note that we instantiated a `MiniCssExtractPlugin`

---

# Adding CSS Modules

[CSS Modules | Github](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules)

<br>

1. In `webpack.config.js`

-   `options: { modules: true },` added with other CSS loaders

2. create `custom.d.ts` file | the `import` cannot be read by TS | this is for the CSS files, you can name it however you like!

-   we describe it with `custom` . `definition` . `file`

-   `TS` does not recognize imports from `.css`, it doesnt know how to `import` CSS files

-   remember, `CSS module` is just an `object`, by definition, it access classes by `styles.className`

```
// custom.d.ts file
declare module "*.css" {
    css: {[key: string]: string; }
    export default css;  // important!
}

ex. {
    example: '_cssName-id'
}

cssFile.className
cssFile["className"]
```

this just says that the `CSS` value will be a `string` from the CSS module!

-   **`important`** to `export default` the property `css`

ex: `styles.pizza-container` **or** `styles["pizza-container"]`

3. `npm i -D typescript-plugin-css-modules`

-   makes it easier to handle CSS by supporting auto completion

-   it parses the `imports` and informs TS what `classes` are available in the CSS file that we imported in our current file

-   in `tsconfig.json`, enable "`plugins": [{"name": "typescript-plugin-css-modules"}]` ( I added more stuff bc docs told me to! )

    -   plugins are an array of objects

    -   a little hiccup here | also got my workspaces' version of TS, it generated the `.vscode` finally

    -   I had to retype the `tsconfig.js`, was not working the first time

-   I had a `;` accidentally placed in the CSS file, that's why the css code would not work. :D
